= Live Draft

Easily specify which method to use to display an object. It was created to work in Rails models, though it works with any Ruby class.

This gem is in an early stage of development, so it might not be as configurable as you'd hope. However, it has already been used in production environments with the default settings.


**Important note: THIS GEM ISN'T READY FOR PRODUCTION!**

== Motivation

Most CMS let you write articles and have two buttons: "save draft" and "publish". However, once an article is published, it's impossible to change it and save the changes as a draft while at the same time keeping the published version.

Keeping both versions might allow you to implement an "autosave draft" feature while editing an article, so the user doesn't lose any changes if something goes wrong with the browser.

I've only seen one gem providing this behaviour, called has_draft. However, it requires two tables with the same structure: one for the published version and one for the draft. This gem tries to implement the same idea, but it avoids duplication but using just one table.

== Install

In your Gemfile:

    gem "live_draft"

Ruby 1.9, Rails 3 and active record are required.

== Usage

First of all, you need to add a column to your table to establish the relation between a draft and its page:

    class AddPublishedToArticle < ActiveRecord::Migration
      def self.up
        add_column :articles, :draft, :boolean
        add_column :articles, :published_id, :integer
      end
    
      def self.down
        remove_column :articles, :draft
	remove_column :articles, :published_id
      end
    end

Then you have to declare it in your model:

    class Article < ActiveRecord::Base
      has_live_draft
    end

And you can use the methods provided by the gem:

    article = Article.create(:title => "My original title")
    article.title = "My new title"
    article.has_draft?
    article.save_draft
    article.has_draft?
    article.title
    article.draft.title
    article.draft.publish
    article.has_draft?
    article.title

== TODO

* Add generators for migrations.
* Make it ORM agnostic.
* Compatibility with more table configurations (not only a boolean column).

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Javier Martín. See LICENSE for details.
